Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished alumni, and students: This year marks the one hundredth year that Welton Academy has been in existence.
Tradition! Honor! Discipline! Excellence!
In her first year, Welton Academy graduated five students. Last year we graduated fifty-one and over seventy-five percent of those went to the Ivy League!
This kind of accomplishment is the result of fervent dedication to the principles taught here. This is why you parents have been sending us your sons, and this is why we are the best preparatory school in the United States.
New students
The key to your success rests on our four pillars. These are the bywords of this school and they will become the cornerstones of your lives. Welton Society candidate Richard Cameron...
Yes sir!
What is Tradition?
Tradition, Mr. Nolan, is love of school, country, and family. Our tradition at Welton is to be the best!
Good, Mr. Cameron. Welton Society Candidate George Hopkins. Honor.
Honor is dignity and the fulfillment of duty!
Good, Mr. Hopkins. Honor Society Candidate, Knox Overstress
Yes sir.
What is discipline?
Discipline is respect for parents, teachers, headmaster. Discipline comes from within.
Thank you, Mr. Overstress. Honor Candidate Neil Perry.
Excellence, Mr. Perry.
Excellence is the result of hard work. Excellence is the key to all success, in school and everywhere.
Gentlemen, at Welton you will work harder than you have ever worked in your lives, and your reward will be the success that all of us expect of you. I would now like to call to the podium Welton's oldest living graduate- Mr. Alexander Carmichael, Jr., Class of 1866.
Ah, Mr. Anderson. You have some big shoes to fill, young man. Your brother was one of our best.
Thank you.
Gale. what's this I hear about a new junior English teacher?
Mr. Gladden took the Headmaster's post at Malford, so we've hired John Keating.
A former student, I hear?
A star student, Mr. Perry. And he's spent the last ten years teaching at the McMillan School in Edinburgh.
Oh. McMillan.
Come meet him. You'll like him.
Overstreet, Perry, Dalton, Anderson, Cameron.
Who's the new boy?
Anderson.
Misters Pitts and Meeks. Demerits.
That's another demerit, Mr. Pitts.
Welcome. back, Mr. Dalton. How's your father?
Doing fine, sir.
Your family move into that new house, Mr. Overstreet?
Yes sir, about a month ago.
Wonderful. I hear It's beautiful.
Mr. Anderson, since. you're new here, let me explain that at Welton, I assign extracurricular activities on the basis of merit and desire. These activities are taken every bit as seriously as your class work... right, boys?
Yes sir!
Failure to attend required meetings will result in demerits. Mr. Dalton the school paper, the Service Club, soccer, rowing. Mr. Overstress Welton Society Candidates, the school paper, soccer, Sons of Alumni Club. Mr. Perry Welton Society Candidates, Chemistry Club, Mathematics Club, school annual, soccer. Mr. Cameron Welton Society Candidates, Debate Club, rowing, Service Club, forensics, Honor Council. Mr. Anderson based on your record at Balincrest, soccer, Service Club, school annual. Anything else I don't know about?
Speak up, Mr. Anderson.
I would prefer rowing sir.
Rowing? Did he say rowing? It says here you played soccer at Balincrest.
I...did...but...
You'll like soccer here, Anderson. Dismissed.
I hear we're going to be roommates. Neil Perry.
Todd Anderson.
Why'd you leave Balincrest?
My brother went here.
Oh, so you're that Anderson.
My parents wanted me here all along but my grades weren't good enough. I had to go to Balincrest to pull them up.
Well, you've won the booby prize. Don't expect to like it here.
I don't.
Heard you got the new boy. He's a hell of a speaker, huh? Oops.
Don't mind Cameron. He's an asshole.
Hey, I heard you went to summer school?
Yeah, chemistry. My father thought I should get ahead.
Well, Meeks aced Latin and I didn't quite flunk English so if you want, we've got our study group.
Sure, but Cameron asked me too. Anybody mind including him?
What's his specialty, brown-nosing?
Hey, he's your roommate.
That's not my fault.
I don't think we've met. I'm Steven Meeks.
Todd. Anderson.
Charlie Dalton.
Knox Overstreet.
Todd's brother is Jeffrey Anderson.
Oh yeah. Sure. Valedictorian, National Merit Scholar
Well, welcome to "Hell"ton.
It's every bit as hard as they say. Unless you're a genius like Meeks.
He flatters me so I'll help him with Latin.
And English, and trig
It's open.
Father. I thought you'd... gone.
Mr. Perry.
Keep your seats, boys. How's it going?
Fine, sir. Thank you.
Neil, I've decided that you're taking too many extracurricular activities. I've spoken to Mr. Nolan about it and you can work on the school annual next year.
But father, I'm assistant editor.
I'm sorry, Neil.
But father, it's not fair.
Fellows, would you excuse us a minute?
I will not be disputed in public, do you understand me?
Father, I wasn't disputing you.
When you've finished medical school and you're on your own, you can do as you please. Until then, you will listen to me.
Yes sir. I'm sorry.
You know what this means to your mother, don't you?
Yes sir.
You know me, always taking on too much.
Good boy. Call us if you need anything.
Why doesn't he let you do what you want?
Yeah! Tell him off! It couldn't get any worse.
Oh that's rich. Like you tell your parents off, Mr. Future Lawyer and Mr. Future Banker!
Wait a minute. I don't let my parents walk on me.
Yeah, you just do everything they say! You'll be in daddy's law firm as sure as I'm standing here.
And you'll be approving loans till you croak.
Okay, so I don't like it any more than you do. I'm just saying
Then don't tell me how to talk to my father when you're the same way. All right?!
All right. Jesus, what are you gonna do?
What I have to do. Screw the annual.
I certainly wouldn't lose any sleep over it. It's just a bunch of people trying to impress Nolan.
Screw it all. I don't give a damn about any of it.
I don't know about anyone else, but I could use a refresher in Latin. Eight o'clock in my room?
Sure.
You're welcome to join us, Todd.
Yeah, come along.
Thank you.
So what do you think of my father?
I'll take him over mine.
What?
Nothing.
Todd, if you're gonna make it around here, you've gotta speak up. The meek might inherit the earth but they don't get into Harvard. know what I mean?
The goddamn bastard!
In addition to the assignments in the text, you will each pick three lab experiments from the project list and report on one every five weeks. The first twenty problems at the end of chapter one are due: tomorrow.
Agricola, agricolae, agricolas, Agricolas, agricolatis, agricolatus
Your study of trigonometry requires absolute precision. Anyone failing to turn in any homework assignment will be penalized one point off his final grade. Let me urge you now not to test me on this point. Who would like to begin by defining a cosine?
A cosine is the sin of the compliment of an angle or arc. If we define an angle A, then...
Don't be embarrassed.
something known only to
Uh-huh
Uh-huh
Ha!
Nimble young minds!
Oh Captain, My Captain. Who knows where that's from?
It was written by a poet named Walt Whitman about Mr. Abraham Lincoln. In this class you may refer to me as either Mr. Keating, or Oh Captain, My Captain.
So that I become the source of as few rumors as possible, let me tell you that yes, I was a student at this institution many moons ago, and no, at that time I did not possess this charismatic personality. However, should you choose to emulate my manner, it can only help your grade. Pick up a textbook from the back, gentlemen, and let's retire to the honor room.
Mister...
Pitts. An unfortunate name. Stand up, Mister Pitts.
To The Virgins to Make Much Of Time?
That's the one.
Gather ye rosebuds while ye may
And this same flower that smiles today
Tomorrow will be dying.
Gather ye rosebuds while ye may. The Latin term for that sentiment is "Carpe Diem." Anyone know what that means?
Carpe Diem... seize the day.
Very good, Mr._?
Meeks.
Seize the day while you're young, see that you make use of your time. Why does the poet write these lines?
Because he's in a hurry?
Because we're food for worms, lads! Because we're only going to experience a limited number of springs, summers, and falls. One day, hard as it is to believe, each and every one of us is going to stop breathing, turn cold, and die! Stand up and peruse the faces of the boys who attended this school sixty or seventy years ago. Don't be timid, go look at them.
They're not that different than any of you, are they? There's hope in their eyes, just like in yours. They believe themselves destined for wonderful things, just like many of you. Well, where are those smiles now, boys? What of that hope?
Did most of them not wait until it was too late before making their lives into even one iota of what they were capable? In chasing the almighty deity of success did they not squander their boyhood dreams? Most of those gentlemen are fertilizing daffodils! However, if you get very close, boys, you can hear them whisper. Go ahead, lean in. near it?
'Carpe Diem, lads. Seize the day. Make your lives extraordinary. -
Todd, Neil, Knox, Charlie, Cameron, Meeks, Pitts all stare into the pictures on the wall. All are lost in thought.
Weird.
But different.
Spooky if you ask me.
You think he'll test us on that stuff?
Oh come on, Cameron, don't you get anything?
How about a trig study group? Right after dinner.
Good by me. Sure. Great.
I can't make it. I got a sign-out to have dinner at the Danburrys' house.
Who are the Danburrys?
Big alum,. How'd you pull that?
They're friends of my dad. Probably in their nineties or something.
Listen, anything's, better than mystery meat.
I'll second that.
Want to come to the study group?
Thanks but I'd better do history.
Knox, come in. Joe Danburry. This is my wife, Janette.
Nice to meet you.
You're the spitting image of your father. How is he?
Great. Just did a big case for GM.
Ah. I know where you're headed. Like father like son, eh?
Ginny. Come meet Knox.
Knox, this is our daughter, Virginia.
Ginny, mom.
Dad, can I take the Buick?
What's wrong with your car?
Chet, where are your manners? Knox, this is my son Chet and his girlfriend Chris Noel. This is Knox Overstreet. Excuse me while I check on dinner.
Hi.
Pleased to meet you.
The pleasure is mine.
Come on, Dad, why is this always a big deal?
Because I bought you a sports car and suddenly you want my car all the time.
Chris' mom feels safer when we're in a bigger car. Right, Chris?
It's all right, Chet.
It's not all right. Come on, Dad
Come on, Dad.
So, uh, where are you in school?
Ridgeway High. How's Henley Hall, Gin?
Ginny
Okay.
That's your sister school, right?
Sort of.
You going out for the Henley Hall play?
They're doing "A Midsummer Night's Dream."
Maybe.
How did you meet Chet?
I mean... Er...
He plays on the Ridgeway football team and I'm a cheerleader. He used to go to Welton but he flunked out.
You should do it, Gin. You'd be great.
Chris. We got it. Let's go.
Nice meeting you, Knox. Bye, Gin.
Nice meeting you. Chris.
Oh.
something wrong?
How was dinner?
Terrible. Awful! I met the most beautiful girl I've ever seen in my life!
Are you crazy? What's wrong with that?
She's practically engaged to Chet Danburry. Mr. Mondo Jocko himself.
Too bad.
It's not too bad. It's a tragedy! Why does she have to be in love with a jerk?!
All the good ones go for jerks, you know that. Forget her. Take out your trig book and figure out problem twelve.
I can't just forget her, Pitts. And I certainly can't think about math!
Sure you can. You're off on a tangent-- so you're halfway into trig already
Duh, Meeks!
I thought it was clever.
You really think I should forget her?
You have another choice.
Only you, Pittsie.
Boys, quietly open your texts to page 54
Little Boy Blue, by Eugene Field: The little toy dog is covered with dust, But sturdy and staunch he stands. And the little toy soldier is red with rust, And his musket moulds in his hands; Time was when the little toy dog was new, And the soldier was passing fair; And that was the time when our Little Boy Blue, Kissed them and put them there. 'Now don't you go till I come,' he said, 'And don't you make any noise!' So toddling off to his trundle bed He dreampt of pretty toys; And as he was dreaming, an angel song, Awakened our Little Boy Blue-- Oh the years are many, the years are long, But the little toy friends are true. Ay, faithful to Little Boy Blue they stand,
Awaiting the touch of a little hand, The smile of a little face. And they wonder, as waiting the long years thru, In the dust of that little chair, What has become of our Little Boy Blue, Since he kissed them and put them there.
AHHGGGG!!
Treacle! Mawkish treacle! Rip it out of your books. Rip out the entire page! I want this sentimental rubbish in the trash where it belongs!
Make a clean tear. I want nothing left of it! Eugene Field! Disgraceful.
What the... Sorry, I didn't think you were in here, Mr. Keating.
This is battle, boys. War! You are souls at a critical juncture. Either you will succumb to the will of hoi polloi and the fruit will die on the vine--or you will triumph as individuals. It may be a coincidence that part of my duties are to teach you about Romanticism, but let me assure you that I take the task quite seriously. You will learn what this school wants you to learn in my class, but if I do my job properly, you will also learn a great deal more. You will learn to savor language and words because they are the stepping stones to everything you might endeavor to do in life and do well. A moment ago I used the term 'hoi polloi.' Who knows what it means? Come on, Overstreet, you twirp.
Anderson, are you a man or a boil?
The hoi polloi. Doesn't it mean the herd?
Precisely, Meeks. Greek for the herd. However, be warned that, when you say "the hoi polloi" you are actually saying the the herd. Indicating that you too are "hoi polloi."
Now, many will argue that nineteenth-- century literature has nothing to do with business school or medical school. They think we should I read our Field and Pipple, learn our rhyme and meter, and quietly go about it our business of achieving other ambitions.
Well, I say drivel! One reads poetry because he is a member of the human race and the human race is filled with passion! Medicine, Law, Banking-these are necessary to sustain life-but poetry, romance, love, beauty! These are what we stay alive for. I read from Whitman. Oh me, Oh life of the questions of these recurring. OF the endless trains of the faithless of cities filled with the foolish... skipping... What good amid these O me, O life? Answer: That you are here- That life exists and identity That the powerful play goes on, and you may contribute a verse."
"That the powerful play goes on, and you may contribute a verse." Incredible.
What will your verse be?
Let's open our textbooks to page sixty and learn about Wordsworth notion of romanticism...
Quite an interesting class you had today, Mr. Keating.
Sorry if I shocked you.
No need to apologize. It was quite fascinating, misguided though it was.
You heard it all?
You're hardly a Trappist monk.
You take a big risk encouraging them to be artists, John. When they realize they're not Rembrants or Shakespeares or Picassos, they'll hate you for it.
Not artists, George, free thinkers. And I hardly pegged you as a cynic.
A cynic? A realist! Show me the heart unfettered by foolish dreams and I'll show you a happy man.
But I will enjoy listening to your lectures
I found his senior annual in the library.
Captain of the soccer team, editor of the annual, Cambridge bound, Man most likely to do anything, Thigh man, Dead Poets Society.
Thigh man? Mr. "K" was a hell raiser.
What is the Dead Poets Society?
Any group pictures in the annual?
Nothing. No mention of it.
Nolan.
Yes sir. Very much.
And our Mr. Keating. Finding him interesting, boys?
Yes sir. We were just talking about that.
Good. We're very excited about him. He was a Rhodes Scholar, you know.
Mr. Keating? Sir? Oh Captain My Captain.
What was the Dead Poets Society?
Ah, so you boy's have been snooping.
I was just looking in an old annual and...
Nothing wrong with research.
But what was it?
The Dead Poets was a secret organization. I don't know how the present administration would look upon it but I doubt the reaction would be favorable. Can you keep a secret?
The Dead Poets Society was dedicating to sucking the marrow out of life. That phrase is by Thoreau and was invoked at every meeting. A small group of us would meet at a cave and there we would take turns reading Shelley, Thoreau, Whitman, our own verse-any number of poets-and, in the enchantment of the moment, let them work their magic on us.
You mean it was a bunch of guys sitting around reading poetry?
Both sexes participated, Mr. Overstreet. And, believe me, we did not simply read, we let it drip from our tongues like honey. Women swooned, spirits soared... Gods were created, gentlemen.
What did the name mean. Did you only read dead poets.
All poetry was acceptable. The name simply referred to the fact, that to join the organization, you had to be dead.
What?
Full membership required a lifetime of apprenticeship. The living were simply pledges. Alas, even I am still a lowly initiate.
The last meeting must have been 25 years ago. Hasn't been another since.
I say we go tonight. Everybody in?
Where is this cave he's talking about?
Beyond the stream. I think I know.
That's miles.
Sounds boring to me.
Don't come.
You know how many demerits we're talking?
So don't goddam come! Please.
All I'm saying is we have to be careful. We can't get caught.
Well, no shit, Sherlock
Who's in?
I'm in.
Well...
Oh come on, Pitts...
His grades are hurting, Charlie.
Then you can help him.
What is this, a midnight study group?
Forget it, Pitts, you're coming. Meeks, your grades hurting too?
All right. I'll try anything once.
Except sex.
I'm in as long as we're careful.
Knox?
I don't know. I don't get it.
Come on. It'll help you get Chris.
It will? How do you figure?
Women swoon!
But why?
Why do they swoon?! Charlie, tell me why they swoon!
Listen, I'm inviting you. You can't expect everybody to think of you all the time. Nobody knows you.
Thanks but it's not a question of that.
What is it then?
I... I just don't want to come.
But why? Don't you understand what Keating is saying? Don't you want to do something about it?
Yes. But
Put what? Goddamn it, tell me.
I don't want to read.
What?
Keating said everybody took turns reading. I don't want to do it.
God, you really have a problem, don't you? How can it hurt you to read? I mean isn't that what this is all about? Expressing yourself?
Yaa, I'm a dead poet!
Ahh!
Eat it, Dalton!
This is it.
I hereby reconvene the Welton Chapter of the Dead Poets Society. These meetings will be conducted by myself and by the rest of the new initiates now present. Todd Anderson, because he prefers not to read, will keep minutes of the meetings.
I will now read the traditional opening message from society member Henry David Thoreau.
I went to the woods because I wanted to live deliberately."
I wanted to live deep and suck out all the marrow of life!"
All right. I'll second that.
To put the rout all that was not life.
And not, when I came to die, discover that I had not lived. Pledge Overstreet.
The millions are awake enough for Physical labor; but only one in a million is awake enough for effective intellectual exertion, only one in a hundred millions to a poetic or divine life. To be awake is to be alive.
Hey, this is great.
If one advances confidently in the direction of his dreams and endeavors to live the life which he has imagined, he will meet with a success unexpected in common hours.
Yes! I want success with Chris!
If you have built castles in the air, your work need not be lost. That is where they should be. Now put foundations under them.
God, I want to do everything! I'm going to explode.
Listen to this: Out of the night that covers me, Black as the Pit from pole to pole, I thank whatever gods may be for my unconquerable soul!"
I here and now commit myself to daring!
So avoid using the word 'very' because it's lazy. A man is not very tired, he is exhausted. Don't use very sad, use morose. Language was invented for one reason, boys--to woo women--and, in that endeavor, laziness will not do. It also won't do in your essays.
Creeds and schools in abeyance I permit to speak at every hazard, Nature without check, with original energy. -- Walt Whitman. Ah, but the difficulty of ignoring those creeds and schools, conditioned as we are by our parents, our traditions, by the modern age. How do we, like Whitman, permit our own true natures to speak? How do we strip ourselves of prejudices, habits, influences? The answer, my dear lads, is that we must constantly endeavor to find a new point of view.
Why do I stand here? To feel taller than you? I stand on my desk to remind myself that we must constantly force ourselves to look at things differently. The world looks different from up here. If you don't believe it, stand up here and try it. All of you. Take turns.
Try never to think about anything the same way twice. If you're sure about something, force yourself to think about it another way, even if you know it's wrong or silly. When you read, don't consider only what the author thinks, but take the time to consider what you think. You must strive to find your own voice, boys, and the longer you wait to begin, the less likely you are to find it at all. Thoreau said, "Most men lead lives of quiet desperation." I ask, why be resigned to that? Risk walking new ground. Now. A flame in your hearts could change the world, lads. Nurture it.
In addition to your essays, I want you each to write a poem--something your own to be delivered aloud in class. See you Monday.
And don't think I don't know this assignment scares you to death, Mr. Anderson, you mole.
Radio Free America.
I've found it.
Found what?
What I want to do! Right now. What is really inside of me.
A Midsummer Night's Dream. What is it?
A play, dummy.
I know that. What's it got to do with you?
They're putting it on at Henley Hall. See, open try-outs.
So?
So I'm gonna act! Ever since I can remember I've wanted to try it. Last summer I even tried to go to summer stock auditions but of course my father wouldn't let me.
And now he will?
Hell no, but that's not the point. The point is for the first time in my whole goddamned life, I know what I want, and for the first time I'm gonna do it whether my father wants me to or not! Carpe diem, goddamn it!
Neil, how are you gonna be in a play if your father won't let you?
First I gotta get the part, then I'll worry about that.
Won't he kill you if you don't let him know you're auditioning?
As far as I'm concerned, he won't have to know about any of it.
Come on, that's impossible.
Horseshit. Nothing's impossible.
Why don't you ask him first? Maybe he'll say yes.
That's a laugh. If I don't ask, at least I won't be disobeying him.
But if he said no before then...
Jesus Christ, whose side are you on? I haven't even gotten the part yet. Can't I enjoy the idea even for a little while?
By the way, there's a meeting this afternoon. You coming?
I guess.
None of what Mr. Keating has to say means shit to you, does it?
What is that supposed to mean?
Being in the club means being stirred up by things. You look about as stirred up as a cesspool.
You want me out... is that what you're saying?
No, I want you in. But being in means you gotta do something. Not just say you're in.
Listen Neil, I appreciate your interest in me but I'm not like you. When you say things, people pay attention. People follow you. I'm not like that.
Why not? Don't you think you could be?
No! I don't know, I'll probably never know. The point is, there's nothing you can do about it so butt out, all right? I can take care of myself just fine. All right?
Er No.
No? What do you mean 'no'?
No.
"I went to the woods because I wished to live deliberately. I wanted to live deep and suck out all the marrow of life."
God, I want to suck all the marrow out of Chris. I'm so in love, I feel like I'm going to die!
You know what the dead poets would say: Gather ye rosebuds while ye may...
But she's in love with: the moron son of my father's best friend. What would the dead poets say about that?
I feel like I've never been alive. For years I've been risking nothing. I have no idea what I am or what I want to do! Neil, you know you want to act. Knox wants Chris.
Needs Chris! Must have Chris!
Meeks, you're the brain here. What do the dead poets say about somebody like me?
The romantics were passionate experimenters, Charles. They dabbled in many things before settling, if ever.
There aren't too many places to be an experimenter at Welton, Meeks.
I hereby declare this the Charles Dalton Cave for Passionate Experimentation. In the future, anyone wishing entry must have permission from me.
Wait a minute, Charlie. This should belong to the club.
It should, but I found it and now I claim it. carpe cavern, guys. Seize the cave.
I gotta get to the tryouts. Wish me luck.
Good luck.
Say, look who's the soccer instructor.
Here here, there are quite a few of us so we have to be quiet if we're to get anything accomplished. Who has the roll?
I do, sir.
Answer "present." please. Chapman?
Present.
Perry?
Neil Perry?
Hmmmm. Watson?
Richard Watson? Absent too, eh?
Watson's sick, sir.
Hmm. Sick indeed. I suppose I should give Watson demerits. But if I give Watson demerits, I will also have to give Perry demerits and I like Perry.
Boys, you don't have to be here if you don't want to. Anyone who wants to play, follow me.
Devotees may argue that one game or sport is inherently better than another. For me the most important thing in all sport is the way other human beings can push us to excel. Plato, a gifted man like myself, said, "Only the contest made me a poet, a sophist, an orator." Each person take a slip of paper and line up single file.
You know what to do... Now go!
Oh to struggle against great odds, To meet enemies undaunted!
Rhythm, boy! Rhythm is important.
To be entirely alone with them, to find out how much one can stand!
To look strife, torture, prison, popular odium face to face!
To indeed be a God!
I got it. Hey, everybody, I got the part! I'm going to play Puck. Hey, I'm Puck!
Puck you! Pipe down.
All right, Neil. Congratulations!
Neil, how are you gonna do this?
Sssh. That's what I'm taking care of. They need a letter of permission.
From you?
From my father and Nolan.
Neil, you're not gonna...
Quiet. I have to think.
I see a sweetness in her smile Bright light shines from her eyes But life is complete: contentment mine Just knowing that she--
I'm sorry. It's stupid.
It's fine, Knox. Good effort.
What Knox has done demonstrates an important point, not only in writing poetry, but in every endeavor. That is, deal with the important things in life love, beauty, truth, justice.
And don't limit poetry to the word. Poetry can be found in a work of art, music, a photograph, in the way a meal is prepared--anything with the stuff of revelation in it. It can exist in the most everyday things but it must never, never be ordinary By all means, write about the sky or a girl's smile but when you do, let your poetry conjure up salvation day, doomsday, any day, I don't care, as long as it enlightens us, thrills us and--if it's inspired--makes us feel a bit immortal.
Oh, Captain, My Captain. Is there poetry in math?
Absolutely, Mr. Dalton, there is elegance in mathematics. If everyone wrote poetry, the planet would starve, for God's sake. But there must be poetry--and we must stop to notice it--in even the simplest acts of living, or we will have wasted the truly wonderful opportunity that life as human beings offers us. That said, who wants to recite next? Come on. I'll get to everyone eventually.
Look at Mr. Anderson. In such agony. Step up, lad, and let's put you out of your misery.
Todd, have you prepared your poem?
Mr. Anderson believes that everything he has inside of him is worthless and embarrassing. Correct, Todd? Isn't that your fear?
Then today you will see that what is inside of you is worth a great deal.
A yawp, for those who don't know, is a loud cry or yell. Todd, I would like you to give us a demonstration of a barbaric yawp.
A yawp?
A barbaric yawp.
Good god, boy! Yell!
Yawp!
Again! Louder!
YAWP!
LOUDER!
AHHHHHH!
All right! Very good! There's a barbarian in there after all!
Todd, there's a picture of Whitman over the door. What does he remind you Of? Quickly, Anderson, don't think about it.
A madman.
A madman. Perhaps he was. What kind of madman? Don't think! Answer.
A crazy madman.
Use your imagination! First thing that pops to your mind, even if it's gibberish!
A... A sweaty-toothed madman.
Now there's the poet speaking! Close your eyes and think of the picture. Describe what you see. NOW!
I... I close my eyes. His image floats beside me.
A sweaty-toothed madman
A sweaty-toothed madman with a stare that pounds my brain.
Excellent! Have him act. Give it rhythm!
His hands reach out and choke me All the time he mumbles slowly. Truth... Truth is like a blanket that always leaves your feet cold.
To hell with them, most about the blanket!
Stretch it, pull it, it will never cover any of us. Kick at it, beat at it, it will never be enough-
Don't stop!
From the moment we enter crying to the moment we leave dying, It will cover just your head as you wail and cry and scream!
Don't forget this.
Look at this.
What is it?
The god of the cave.
in.
Gentlemen, "Poetrusic" by Charles Dalton.
Laughing, crying, tumbling, mumbling, gotta do more. Gotta be more
Chaos screaming, chaos dreaming, crying, flying, gotta be more!! Gotta be more!!
Charlie, That was great! Where did you learn to play like that?
My parents made me take clarinet but I hated it.
God, I can't take it anymore! If I don't have Chris, I'll kill myself.
Knox, you gotta calm down.
No, I've been calm all my life! If I don't do something, it's gonna kill me.
Where are you going?
I'm calling her!
Hello?
She's gonna hate me! The Danburrys will hate me. My parents will kill me!
All right, goddamn it, you're right! 'Carpe diem' even if it kills me.
Hello?
Hello Chris, this is Knox Overstress.
Knox. Oh yes, Knox. I'm glad you called.
You are?
She's glad I called!
I wanted to call you but I didn't have the number. Chet's parents are going out of town this weekend so Chet's having a party. Would you like to come?
Well, sure!
Chet's parents don't know about it, so please keep it quiet. But you can bring someone if you like.
I'll be there. The Danburrys. Friday night. Thank you, Chris.
Can you believe it? She was gonna call me! She invited me to a party with her!
At Chet Danburry's house.
Yeah.
Well?
So?
So you really think she means you're going with her?
Well hell no, Charlie, but that's not the point. That's not the point at all!
What is the point?
The point is she was thinking about me! I've only met her once and already she's thinking about me. Damn it, it's gonna happen! I feel it. She's going to be mine!
Yet but three? Come one more. Two of both kinds makes up four. Here she comes, curst and sad. Cupid is a knavish lad Thus to make poor females mad.
Good, Neil. I really get the feeling your Puck knows he's in charge. Remember that he takes great delight in what he's doing.
Cupid is a knavish lad Thus to make poor females mad!"
Excellent. Continue, Ginny.
Never so weary, never so in woe, Bedabbled with the dew, and torn with briars I can no further crawl, no further go."
Todd?
What's going on?
Todd, what's the matter?
It's my birthday.
It is? Happy Birthday. You get anything?
This is your desk set.
I don't get it.
They gave me the exact same thing as last year!
Oh..
Oh.
Well, maybe they thought you'd need another one. Maybe they thought...
Maybe they don't think at all unless it's about my brother! His birthday's always a big to-do.
The stupid thing is, I didn't even like the first one.
Look, Todd, you're obviously under- estimating the value of this desk set.
what?
I mean, this is one special gift! Who would want a football or a baseball bat or a car when they could get a desk set as wonderful as this one!
Yeah! And just look at this ruler!
You know what Dad called me when I was growing up? "Five ninty-eight." That's what all the chemicals in the human body would be worth if you bottled them raw and sold them. He told me that was all I'd ever be worth unless I worked every day to improve myself. "Five ninety- eight."
When I was little, I thought all parents automatically loved their kids. That's what my teachers told me. That's what I read in the books they gave me. That's what I believed. Well, my parents might have loved my brother but they did not love me.
People, I am delighted with your progress as reflected in your essays and poems. However, I know the school policy is to encourage study groups and I believe that a dangerous though inevitable element of conformity has been seeping into your work. Misters Pitts, Cameron, Overstreet, and Chapman line up please over here.
On the count of four, begin walking together around the courtyard. Nothing to think about. No grade here. One, two, three, go.
That's the way. Please continue.
There it is Hear it?
One two, one two, one two, one two
All right, stop. You way have noticed how at the beginning Mister Overstress and Pitts: seemed to have a different stride than the others, but soon they were all walking in the same cadence. Our encouragement made it even more marked. Now this experiment was not to single out Pitts or Overstress. What it demonstrates is how difficult it is for any of us to listen to our own voice or maintain our own beliefs in the presence of others. If any of you believe you would have marched differently, then ask yourself why you participated in the clapping. Lads, there is a great need in all of us to be accepted. However, that need can be like a nasty current, whisking us away unless we're strong and determined swimmers. Don't insist on the separate path simply to be different or contrary, but trust what is unique about yourselves even if it's odd or unpopular. As Mr. Robert Frost said, "Two roads diverged in a wood, and I... I took the one less traveled by, And that has made all the difference."
where's Knox?
Getting ready for that party.
What about Charlie? He's the one who insisted on this meeting.
I went to the woods because I wanted to live deliberately. To live deep and suck out all the marrow of life-~
I can't see a thing.
It's just over here.
Hey guys, meet Gloria and...
Tina.
Tina and Gloria, this is the pledge class of the Dead Poets society.
It's such a strange name! Won't you tell us what it means?
I told you, that's a secret.
Isn't he precious?
I can't call you Charlie anymore?
What does Numama mean, honey?
It's Nuwanda, and I made it up.
I'm cold.
Let's build a fire.
Chris!
Oh, hi. I'm glad you made it. Did you bring anybody?
No.
Ginny Danburry's here. Look for her.
But, Chris...
I gotta find Chet. Make yourself at home.
Charlie...
It's Nuwanda.
Nuwanda, what is going on?
Nothing, unless you object to having girls here.
Well, of course not. It's just that... You could have warned us.
I thought I'd be spontaneous. I mean, that's the point of this whole thing, isn't it?
Where'd you find them?
They were walking along the fence past the soccer field. Said they were curious about the school so I invited them to the meeting.
Do they go to Henley Hall?
I don't think they're in school.
They're townies?!
Cameron, what is the matter with you. You act like they're your mother or something. You afraid of them?
Hell no, I'm not afraid of them just, if we get caught with them, we're dead.
Say, what's going on out there?
Just gathering wood.
You just keep your mouth shut, jerkoff, and there's nothing to worry about.
Watch who you call a jerkoff.
Oh calm down, Cameron.
You Mutt Sanders' brother?
Bubba...
This guy look like Mutt Sanders?
You his brother?
No relation. Never heard of him. Sorry.
Say Steve, where's your manners? Here's Mutt's brother and you don't offer him a drink? Want some bourbon?
Actually I don't
To Mutt.
To Mutt.
To Mutt.
So what the hell's Mutt been up to?
Actually I don't really know Mutt.
To fucking Mutt.
To fucking Mutt.
Fucking Mutt
Well, I'd better find Patsy.
Say hello to Mutt for me.
Will do.
I heard you guys were weird but not this weird.
Go ahead, pass it around.
Yeah!
Don't you guys miss having girls here?
Miss it? It drives us crazy. That's part of what this club is about. In fact, I'd like to announce that I've published an article in the school paper, in the name of the Dead Poets society, demanding girls be admitted to Welton, so we can all stop beating off.
You what?! How did you do that?
I'm one of the proofers. I slipped the article in.
Oh God, it's over now!
Why? Nobody knows who we are.
Don't you think they'll figure out who did it?! Don't you know they'll come to you and demand to know what the Dead Poets Society is? Charlie, you had no right to do something like that!
It's Nuwanda, Cameron.
That's right, it's Nuwanda.
And are we just playing around out here or do we mean what we say? If all we do is come and read a bunch of poems to each other, what the hell are we doing?
You still shouldn't have done it, Charlie. You don't speak for the club.
Hey, would you not worry about your precious little necks? If they catch me, I'll tell them I made it up. All your asses are safe. Look, Gloria and Tina didn't come here to listen to us argue. Are we gonna have a meeting or what?
Yeah, how do we know if we want to join if you don't have a meeting?
Join?
"Shall I compare thee to a summer's day? Thou art more lovely and more temperate..."
Oh, that's so sweet!
I wrote that for you.
You did?
I'll write one for you too, Gloria.
"She walks in beauty like the night.."
"She walks in beauty like the night..."
'of cloudless climes and starry skies; All that's best of dark and bright Meet in her aspect and her eyes.'
Isn't he wonderful?!
Hey!
Sorry.
Oh Chris, you're so beautiful.
Chris, you are so gorgeous.
Oh my God help me.
carpe breastum. Seize the breast.
Huh?
I didn't say anything.
Oh Chet, that feels fabulous,
It does?
What?
You know,
Don't stop.
Stop what?
Chet...
Oh... oh...
What are you doing?!
Knox?!
Chet! Chris! What are you doing here?
why you...
You fucked up little prick!
Chet, you don't have to hurt him.
Chet, stop! He didn't mean anything.
That's enough!
I'm sorry, Chris. I'm sorry!
You want some more, you little son of a bitch? Huh?! Get the hell out of here!!
Chris, I'm sorry!
Next time I see you, you're dead!
Hey guys, why don't you show Tina the Dead Poets garden?
Garden?
What garden?
Oh. Right. That garden. Come on, guys.
This is so strange! You guys even have a garden?
What are you guys talking about?
Charles, uh, Nuwanda, we don't have a garden.
God, for a smart guy, he's so stupid.
I think he's sweet.
I think you're sweet.
You know what really excites me about you?
What?
Every guy that I meet wants me for one thing my body. You're not like that.
I'm not?
No! Anybody else would have jumped my bones by now but you're after my soul. Make me up some more poetry.
But...
Please! It's so wonderful to be appreciated for my mind!
Nuwanda? Please?
All right! I'm thinking!
"Let me not to the marriage of true minds Admit impediments; love is not love Which alters when it alteration finds
Don't stop.
"O, no, it is an ever-fixed mark That looks on tempests and is never shaken; It is the star to every wandering bark whose worth's unknown, although his height be taken."
This is better than sex any day. This is romance!
All set.
In this week's issue of Walter Honor, there appeared an unauthorized and profane article about the need for girls at Welton. Rather than spend my valuable time ferreting out the guilty parties-- and let me assure you I will find them--I am asking any and all students who know anything about this article to make themselves known here and now. Whoever the guilty persons are, this is your only chance to avoid expulsion from this school.
Welton Academy, hello? Yes, he is, just a moment. Mr. Nolan, it's for you.
what?!
It is? You do? I'll tell him. Mr. Nolan, it's God. He says we should have girls at Welton.
I will not be mocked, Mr. Dalton!
Who else was involved in this?
No one, sir. It was just me. I did the proofing so I inserted my article in place of Rob Crane's.
Mr. Dalton, if you think you're the first to try to get thrown out of this school, think again. Others have had similar actions and they have failed just as surely as you will fail. Bend over and grab your shins.
Count aloud, Mr. Dalton.
Two
Do you still insist that this was your idea and your idea alone?
Yes... sir.
What is this "Dead Potts Society"? I want names.
It's only me, Mr. Nolan. I swear. I made it up.
If I find that there are others, Mr. Dalton, they will be expelled and you will remain enrolled. Stand up.
Welton can forgive, Mr. Dalton, provided you have the courage to admit your mistakes. When you are ready to make your apology to the entire school, let me know.
What happened? Were you kicked out?
No.
What happened?
I'm supposed to turn everybody in, apologize to the school and all will be forgiven.
What are you going to do? - Charlie?
Damn it, Neil, the name is Nuwanda.
Mr. Keating, could we have a word?
This was my first classroom, John, did you know that?
My first desk.
I didn't know you taught.
English. Way before your time. It was hard giving it up, I'll tell you.
I'm hearing rumors, John, of some unusual teaching methods in your classroom. I'm not saying they have anything to do with the Dalton boy's outburst, but I don't think I have to warn you that boys his age are very impressionable.
Your reprimand made quite an impression I'm sure.
What was going on in the courtyard the other day?
Courtyard?
Oh that. That was an exercise to prove a point. About the evils of conformity.
John, the curriculum here is set. It's proven. It works. If you question it, what's to prevent them from doing the same?
I always thought education was learning to think for yourself.
At these boys' age? Not on your life! Tradition, John. Discipline.
Prepare them for college, and the rest will take care of itself.
I wouldn't worry about the boys being too conformist if I were you.
Why is that?
Well, you yourself graduated from these hallowed halls, did you now?
Yes?
So if you want to raise a confirmed atheist, give him a rigid religious upbringing. Works every time.
Mr. Keating!
I don't know what misguided impulse caused you to pull that ridiculous stunt, Mr. Dalton, but, whatever it was, I hope you've learned your lesson.
You're siding with Mr. Nolan?! What about carpe diem and sucking all the marrow out of life and all that?
Sucking out the marrow doesn't mean getting the bone stuck in your throat, Charles. You still have responsibilities to yourself and those who care about you.
But I thought-
There is a place for daring and a place for caution as well, Charles, and a wise person understands which one is called for. Getting expelled from this school is not an act of wisdom. It's far from perfect but there are still opportunities to be had here.
Yeah? Like what?
Like, if nothing else, the opportunity to attend my classes, understand?
Yes sir.
So keep your head about you--the lot of you--understood?
Yes, Sir.
Gentlemen, today we will consider a skill which I consider indispensable for getting the most out of college analyzing books you haven't read. College will probably destroy your love for poetry. Hours of boring analysis, dissection and criticism will see to that. College will also expose you to all manner of literature--much of it transcendent works of magic which you must devour; some of it utter drek which you must avoid like the plague.
Suppose you are taking a course entitled "Modern Novels." All semester you have been reading masterpieces such as the touching PERE GORIER by Balzac and the moving FATHERS and SONS by Turgenev, but when you receive your assignment for your final paper, you discover that you are to write an essay on the theme of parental love in The Doubtful Debutante, a novel-- and I use that term generously here--by none other than the professor himself.
After reading the first three pages of the book, you realize that you would rather volunteer for combat than waste your precious earthly time infecting your mind with this sewage, but do you despair? Take an "F." Absolutely not because you are prepared.
what is most remarkable is the novel's uncanny connection with Hindu Indian philosopher Avesh Rahesh Non. Rahesh Non discussed in painful detail the discarding of parents by children for the three headed monster of ambition, money, and social success. Go on to discuss Rahesh Non's theories about what feeds the monster, how to behead it, etcetera etcetera. End by praising the professor's brilliant writing and consummate courage in introducing The Doubtful Deb to you.
Oh Captain, My Captain. What if we don't know anything about someone like Rahesh Non?
Rahesh Non never existed, Mr. Meeks. You make him or someone like him up. No self important college professor such as this one would dare admit ignorance of such an obviously important figure and you will probably receive a comment similar to the one I received:
Your allusions to Rahesh Non were insightful and well presented. Glad to see that someone besides myself appreciates this great but forgotten Eastern master. A plus.
Gentlemen, analyzing dreadful books you haven't read will be on your final exam, so I suggest you practice on your own. Now for some traps of college exams. Take cut a blue book and pencil, boys. This is a pop quiz.
Big universities are crowded Sodoms and Gomorrahs filled with those delectable beasts we see so little of here: females. The level of distraction is dangerously high, but this quit is designed to prepare you. Let me warn you, this test will count. Begin.
Concentrate on your tests, boys. You have twenty minutes.
Here, villain, draw and ready. where art thou?
I will be with thee straight.
Follow me then to plainer ground. God, I love this!
This play?
Yes, and acting! It's got to be one of the most wonderful things in the world. Most people, if they're lucky, live about half an exciting life! If I could get the parts, I could live dozens of lives.
To be or net to be, that is the question! God, for the first time in my whole life, I feel completely alive! You have to try it.
You should come to rehearsals. I know they need people to work the lights and stuff.
No thanks.
Lots of girls. The girl who plays Hermia is incredible.
I'll come to the performance.
Chicken shit. Where were we?
Yea, art thou there?
Put more into it!
YEA, ART THOU THERE?!
That's it! "Follow my voice. We'll try no manhood here." See you at dinner.
Father!
Neil, you are going to quit this ridiculous play immediately.
Father, I--
Don't you dare talk back to me! It's bad enough that you've wasted your time with this absurd acting business. But you deliberately deceived me!
Who put this in your head? How did you expect to get away with it? Answer me!
Nobody- I thought I'd surprise you. I've got all As and-
Did you really think I wouldn't find out?! "My niece is in a play with your son," Mrs. Marks says. "You must be mistaken," I say. "My son isn't in a play." You made a liar out of me, Neil! Now you will go tomorrow and tell them you are quitting.
Father, I have the main part. The performance is tomorrow night. Father, please.
I don't care if the world is coming to an end tomorrow night, you are through with that play! Is that clear? Is that clear!
Yes sir.
I've made great sacrifices to get you here, Neil. You will not let me down.
Mr. Dalton, what is wrong, son? Are you having difficulty with your meal?
No.
Misters Necks and Overstreet and Anderson, are you normally left-handed?
No sir.
Then why are you eating with your left hands?
We thought it would be good to break old habits, sir.
What is wrong with old habits, Mr. Overstreet?
They perpetuate mechanical living, sir. They limit your mind.
Mr. Overstreet, I suggest you worry less about breaking old habits and more about developing good study habits. Do you understand?
Yes sir.
That goes for all of you. Now eat with your correct hands.
Visit from my father.
Do you have to quit the play?
I don't know.
Why don't you talk to Mr. Keating about it?
What good will that do?
Maybe he'll have some advice. Maybe he'll even talk to your father.
Are you kidding? Don't be ridiculous.
This is stupid.
It's better than doing nothing.
He's not here.
Let's wait for him.
Charlie! Nuwanda!
Nuwanda, we shouldn't be in here.
Whoa, look at her!
My darling Jessica. It's so lonely at times without you bla bla bla. All I can do to put myself at ease is study your beautiful picture or close my eyes and imagine your radiant smile--but my poor imagination is a dim substitute for you. Oh, how I miss you and wish--
Hello!
A woman is a cathedral, boys. Worship at one every chance you get.
Anything else you'd care to rifle through, Mr. Dalton?
I'm sorry. I, we
Oh Captain, My Captain, we came here so I could talk to you about something.
Okay.
Actually, I'd like to talk to you alone.
I gotta go study.
Yeah. See you, Kr. Keating.
Drop by any time.
Thank you, sir.
Damn it, Nuwanda. You idiot.
I couldn't stop myself.
Gosh, they don't give you much room around here, do they?
Maybe they don't want worldly things distracting me from my teaching.
Why do you do it? I mean, with all this seize-the-day business, I'd have thought you'd be out seeing the world or something?
Ah, but I am seeing the world, Neil. The new world. Seeing a student like you take root and bloom. It's worth everything. That's why I came back here. A place like this needs at least one teacher like me.
Did you come here to talk about my teaching?
Mr. Keating, my father is making me quit the play at Henley Hall. When I think about carpe diem and all that, I feel like I'm in prison! I mean, I can see his point. We're not a rich family like Charlie's. But he's planned the rest of my life for me and he's never even asked me what I want!
You can't live a life for someone else, Neil. You can only live for yourself. Have you told your father what you just told me? Have you shown him your passion about acting?
Are you kidding? He'd kill me!
Then you're playing a part for him too, aren't you? A dangerously self- destructive one.
Neil, I know this seems impossible but you have to go to your father and show him what you're feeling. You have to let him see who you are- It's your only chance.
I know what he'll say. He'll say that acting is just a whim and that it's frivolous and that I should forget about it. He'll tell me how they're counting on me and to put it out of my mind "for my own good."
Well, if it's more than a whim, then you'll have to prove that to him. You'll have to show him with your passion and commitment that it's what you really want to do. If that doesn't work, at least by then you'll be eighteen and able to do what you want.
Eighteen! That's two years! What about the play? The performance is tomorrow night!
Give your father the benefit of the doubt. Talk to him. Let him see who you are.
Isn't there an easier way?
Not if you're going to stay true to yourself.
What are you writing?
I don't know. A poem.
For class?
I don't know.
Damn. Damn! If I could just get Chris to read this poem!
Why don't you read it to her? It worked for Nuwanda.
She won't even see me, Pitts.
Nuwanda recited poetry to Gloria and she jumped all over him... right, Nuwanda?
Absolutely.
Damn! Goddam! If it worked for him, it'll work for me.
Chris!
Knox! what are you doing here?
I came to apologize for the other night. I brought you these and a poem I wrote.
If Chet sees you, he'll kill you, don't you know that?
I don't care. I love you, Chris. You deserve better than Chet and I'm it. Please accept these.
Knox, you're crazy.
Please. I acted like a jerk and I know it. Please?
No! And stop bugging me.
Knox, I don't believe this!
All I'm asking you to do is listen.
"The heavens made a girl named Chris, With hair and skin of gold To touch her would be paradise To kiss her glory untold."
They made a goddess and called her Chris, How? I'll never know. But though my soul is far behind, My love can only grow.
I see a sweetness in her smile, Bright light shines from her eyes, But life is complete--contentment is mine, just knowing that she's alive."
I love you, Chris.
How'd it go? Did you read it to her?
Yep.
All right! What'd she say?
I don't know.
What do you mean you don't know?
I'll tell you later.
Neil, could I see you a moment.
What did your father say? Did you talk to him?
Yeah.
Really? You told your father what you told me? You let him see your passion for acting?
Yeah. He didn't like it one bit but at least he's letting me stay in the play. Of course, he won't be able to come. He'll be in Chicago on business. But I think he's gonna let me stay with acting. As long as I keep my grades up.
Where's Nuwanda? We're gonna miss Neil's entrance.
He said something about getting red before he left.
What the hell does that mean?
You know Charlie.
What's this getting red?
What's it for?
It's an Indian warrior symbol for virility. Makes me feel potent. Like I can drive girls crazy.
But what if they see it, Nuwanda?
So much the better.
Chris!
Knox, why are you doing this to me?
You can't be in here.
If they catch you here, we'll both be in big trouble.
Oh, but it's fine for you to come barging into my school and make a complete fool out of me?
I didn't mean to make a fool of you.
Well, you did! Chet found out and he's nuts. It took everything I could do to keep him from coming here and killing you. You have to stop this stuff, Knox.
But I love you.
You say that over and over but you don't even know me!
Go ahead. I'll catch up.
Of course I know you! From the first time I saw you, I knew you had a wonderful soul.
Just like that?! You just knew?
Of course just like that. That's how you always know when it's right.
And if it so happens that you're wrong? If it just so happens that I could care less About you?
Then you wouldn't be here warning me about Chet.
Look, I've got to go. I'm gonna be late for the play.
Are you going with Chet?
Chet? To a play? Are you kidding?
Then come with me.
Knox, you are so infuriating!
Just give me one chance. If you don't like me after tonight, I'll stay away forever.
Uh-huh.
I promise. Dead Poets honor. Come with me tonight, then if you don't want to see me again, I swear I'll bow out.
God, if Chet found out he'd...
Chet won't know anything. We'll sit in back and sneak away as soon as it's over.
Knox, if you promise that this will be the end of it-
Dead Poets honor.
What is that?
My Word
I must be losing my mind.
"flow now, spirit. wither wander you?"
Over hill, over dale, through bush, through brier...
Thou speakest aright: I am that merry wanderer of the night. I jest to Oberon and make him smile when I a fat and bean-fed horse beguile, Neighing in likeness of a filly foal
He's good! He's goddamned good!
Oh my God.
What?
Jesus
Nay good Lysander. For my sake, my dear, Lie further off yet: do not lie so near.
Hermia's Ginny Danburry. Knox is crazy. She's beautiful!
But gentle friend, for love and courtesy Lie further off, in human modesty. Such separation as may well be said Becomes a virtuous bachelor and a maid, So far be distant: and goodnight, sweet friend. Thy love ne'er alter till they sweet life end.
Here is my bed. Sleep give thee all his rest!
With half that wish the wisher's eyes be pressed!
Now we mustn't be glum. Neil wouldn't want it that way. He did something special tonight and worth celebrating. Let us join with the howling night.
Knox, what exactly is this?
You'll see.
I have to go home. Chet might call.
It's just for a little while. You promised.
We used to meet here on special occasions. Who would like to convene the meeting?
"We went to the woods because we wanted to suck all the marrow out of life." Anybody want to read?
Come on boys, don't be shy.
I have something.
The thing you've been writing?
Yeah.
Everybody read this between verses.
"We are dreaming of tomorrow and tomorrow isn't coming, We are dreaming of a glory that we don't really want. We are dreaming of a new day when the new day's here already. We are running from the battle when it's one that must be fought."
"And still we sleep."
"We are listening for the calling but never really heeding, Hoping for the future when the future's only plans. Dreaming of the wisdom that we are dodging daily, Praying for a savior when salvation's in our hands."
"And still we sleep."
"And still we dream. And still we pray. And still we fear.
And still we sleep."
That was great!
I hold in my hand a crystal ball. In it I see great things for Todd Anderson.
And now, "General William Booth Enters Into Heaven," by Vachel Lindsay. When I pause, you ask, "Are you washed in the blood of the Lamb?"
"Booth led boldly with his big brass drum..."
"Are you washed in the blood of the Lamb?"
"The Saints smiled gravely and they said, 'He's come.'..."
"Are you washed in the blood of the Lamb?"
"Walking lepers followed rank on rank, Lurching bravos from the ditches dank, Drabs from the alleyways and drug fiends pale-- Minds still passion ridden, soul-powers frail:"
"Are you washed in the blood of the Lamb?"
"Christ came gently with a robe and crown, For Booth the soldier, while the throng knelt down. He saw King Jesus. They were face to face, And he knelt a-weeping in that holy place."
"Are you washed in the blood of the Lamb?"
"We may or may not be the stuff of eternity, people, but, while we are here, we are part of a vast, awesome magnificence."
Don't waste a second of it, people. Exalt in it.
ALIVE!! ALIVE!!
That's all right! We don't need his signature. Let him suffer the consequences.
You think you can save Mr. Keating? You saw it, boy, we have the signatures of all the others. But, if you don't sign, you're on disciplinary probation for the rest of the year. You'll do work duty every afternoon and every Saturday. And, if you set foot off campus, you'll be expelled.
